>> Kyle Simpson: Just for the sake of
brevity and our codes I'm not doing all
the scrolling I'm gonna go ahead and
eliminate those don't worry.
All three versions are in the solution
file species to be able to see those,
okay now item six and
the read me said to start with some just
come up with some list of numbers I'm
just gonna make a list of numbers here.
And let's see, and I'll just start typing
some numbers 4, 2, 7, 9, 17,
6, 3, 2, 4, 8, 10, 5, 12,
13 I'm just making up a bunch of numbers.
Okay, just make a big list of numbers that
way we prove to ourselves that this really
is working fully intuitively okay?
And you notice there's a bunch of
duplicates in there so the first item,
item six says we need to come up
with a unique list of numbers.
How are we gonna take a list
of numbers and produce it or
reduce it down only the unique
numbers have been included?
Well, there's a couple of different
ways of approaching that but
since we're talking
about least operations,
let's think could we use
something like a filter?
It seems like filter might do the job,
the problem with filter is that it
only works on an individual discrete
value we don't know whether that
value is repeated anywhere else because
we don't see the built up list.
So if we can't do it with a filter
the next most powerful tool that
we might turn to would be a reduced, okay?
Map wouldn't work,
because map is gonna produce a new
array of the same length of items,
and we want a shorter list of items,
so since it wasn't gonna be filter,
maybe we can do it with a reduce.
So let's do it that way,
let's do numbers and then .reduce,
basically, anytime Napier or
filter fails you,
you might turn to reduce
because it's more powerful.
Okay, so let's try a reducer,
I'll call it unique and
we're gonna have a acc,v which again
I'm gonna rename in just a moment but
let's think what do we want the end
result of our reduction to be?
>> Kyle Simpson: We want it
to be another list, right?
So what's a good initial value for a
reduction that's reducing to another list?
>> Kyle Simpson: How about an empty list,
okay?
So the thing that's coming in here, the
accumulator is gonna be our new list so
I'm just gonna name it new list and
of course,
the v that's coming in is our number,
okay?
So I'll just leave it at v and
call it num if you prefer, okay?
So how do we decide if num
needs to be put into new list?
>> Speaker 2: Check it against the array-
>> Kyle Simpson: If num is not already in
new Let's try, so if not,
newList.includes num,
then let's stuff num into newList, right.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then, we definitely
need to keep returning newList no matter
what even if we didn't push anything in,
we need to return new list.
Now there should be a red flag
going off on your heads right now,
what's the red flag?
>> Speaker 3: Mutating array.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep, we're
mutating an array by reference value,
that's a bad sign.
So let's not mutate it, even though we
know in this particular case it's an empty
array and
it's probably safe just to be practicing
this good best practice here,
instead of pushing to a new list,
let's go ahead and just return a new
list with the value having been upended.
So I'm gonna say
newlist.concat num .concat,
if you're not aware of that array method,
it actually produces
a whole new array with the value
array appended onto the end of it.
So rather than calling newList.push, we're
gonna have newList.concat and that's gonna
be returned directly It doesn't mutate it,
it creates a new one, so that's why.
>> Speaker 4: So it basically, in a sense,
does what you did, not right here, but
before when you did the spread operator.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
>> Speaker 4: And you made a copy and
then-
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes, yep,
they're doing that,
I could do it that way, yep,
we could write it that way, as well.
We could say array...
NewList, and then just list none That's
maybe more syntactically declared,
a way of doing it, okay,
good question let's test this real quick.
Let's move this part over to
our little testing round, and-
>> Speaker 5: I'm sorry,
isn't that second return unreachable
in there, did I miss something?
>> Kyle Simpson: No, because it's in an
if-statement we have an if statement there
so we only do the return of
the concatenation otherwise we just
return,
>> Speaker 5: Enter,
I had missed that it was an if statement,
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, no problem at all.
Let's just test, we know that
this thing is gonna give us 35 so
I'll just comment that out for a moment,
we just wanna see if this is gonna
give us a unique list of numbers, And
if I scan through real quick we'll see
if we see, I don't see any repeats.
So it looks like it's giving
us a unique list, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so item number 7
in the read me tells us that now that
we've got a unique list of numbers,
we want to reduce that list or
break that list down to
only include the evens.
What is that operation sound like?
Sounds like a filter to me so
let's do function only evens or
I'll just call it isEven
>> Kyle Simpson: And
this is real straightforward,
we just simply say v mod 2 = 0,
that lets us know and of course,
if we already had an isOdd,
we could have done the not of isOdd,
if you recall back to early
in the course on Point free.
Alright, so
let's add that filter on to the end, so
lets move that back over to our
test ground and when we do that.
What did I do wrong?
Oops!
There we go.
>> Kyle Simpson: We run the code, and now,
you notice that we have only
even numbers on the list, okay?
So let's go one final time back to
item 8 in the read-me, item 8 said,
we need to turn all of those numbers
which we've now created Into
functions, and then pass them
to the ad and utility, okay?
So how do I take a list of numbers and
turn it into a list of functions that
are wrapped around those numbers.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: What's that?
>> Speaker 6: Say that one more time.
>> Kyle Simpson: If I have a list of
numbers, and I want to turn that into
a list of functions wrapped around those
numbers what list operation is that?
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle Simpson: Remember our three
list operations, we have the reduce,
we have the filter, and we have-
>> Speaker 3: Map.
>> Kyle Simpson: Map,
map takes a list of values and
turns it into a new list of
transformed values, right?
So we wanna take dot map on this array and
what is our thing doing?
It's needing to make a function
that's wrapped around the value if we
have been given the value, we need to
make a function and return it back but
this sounds awfully familiar.
It sounds like the function
that we're writing here,
which is making a function that
can remember the value and
return it, does that function
look like that function?
The constant utility, so why don't
we just use constant as our mapper.
Remember equational reasoning if those
functions have the same shape, they
are interchangeable so now if we were to
run this we're not gonna see much from it.
But if we were to pull this over here and
run it now we're gonna get
an array of functions.
We don't know what's in those functions,
but we have an array of functions okay,
the last thing that we need to do
is take that array of functions and
pass it into our ad and utility.
Let's try that out and
we'll copy this over.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's replace this, and
we cross our fingers and
it completes itself.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, So
what questions can I answer about this
exercise on list operations?
>> Kyle Simpson: By the way,
I want to let you in on a little trick,
how did I just randomly type
out all of those numbers and
magically end up with the number
42 having been added?
There's a little mathematic trick that
I used, all of the even numbers from
2 up to 12 when added
together equal to 42.
So as long as I make sure in my random
list of number generation that 246 810 and
12 show up, I can have as many repeats and
as many odds thrown in there as I need to.
We're still gonna end up with a summer 42